# Hardware Requirements
# Computer Parts

The listed components are tested and compatible with each other. However, if you want to use other parts, I highly encourage you to pre-check specs and compatibility. (e.g., The motherboard only support CPUs with a TDP up to 65W due to the CPU-Cooler that you have to use to fit into the case!)

## CPU/GPU
**Ryzen 7 5700G**

Emulation is very CPU intensive as the whole target system (GCN) needs to be simulated. (e.g., the CPU and all of its capabilities needs to be emulated)
Dolphin is a dual core application and relies on high clock speeds. It is recommended to use at least a four core CPU. 

Due to the limited space within a regular GCN-Case a CPU with onboard Graphics is absolutely required. (APU) This APU has arguably the best GPU-Performance you can get within an APU. (For 2022) For dolphin there is a simple and clear rule when it comes to GPU-Power: The more, the better. After I looked up a few benchmarks and performance tests for this APU during dolphin emulation the decision was done.

**Relevant Specs:**
```
Core Count:         8
Thread Count:       16
Max. Boost Clock:   4.6GHz
Base Clock:         3.8GHz
TDP:                65W
Socket:             AM4
L2 Cache:           4MB
L3 Cache:           16MB
PCIe Version:       3.0
Memory Support:     DDR4 with 2 Channels up to 3200MHz
Graphics:           8-Core Radeon Graphics at 2000Mhz
```

## Motherboard
**ASRock DeskMini X300 (Barebone)**

The default motherboard formfactors are too big to fit into a regular GameCube-Case. However, ASRock manufactures a custom made formfactor called **Mini-STX**. The only way to get a non-industrial version is to buy an DeskMini (Barebone) PC from ASRock and extract the motherboard from it. In addition, it supports the latest and most powerful AMD Cezanne APU. (e.g., Ryzen 7 5700G with a TDP of 65W). Also, it comes with a very low-profile CPU cooler that perfectly fits within the case.

**Required BIOS Version for Cezanne Ryzen 5000G CPU's: v1.70.**

**Relevant Specs:**
```
MB Name:            X300M-STX (Bios v1.70)
CPU Support:        AMD AM4 Cezanne up to 65W TDP
Memory Support:     2x SO-DIMM DDR4 Max. 64GB up to 3200MHz
Storage:            2x Ultra M.2 (2280) PCIe Gen3 x4 SSD
Graphics Output:    1x HDMI(4k @60Hz), 1x DisplayPort
LAN/WLAN:           Gigabit Ethernet, 1x M.2 for Wi-Fi + BT
MB Dimensions:      14.0cm x 14.7cm, 5.5in x 5.8.in
Rear USB:           1x USB 3.2 Gen1 Type-A, 1x USB 2.0 Type-A
Front USB:          1x USB 3.2 Gen1 Type-C, 1x USB 3.2 Gen1 Type-A
PSU:                1x DC-In Jack for external PowerSupply Brick
Internal Headers:   1x USB 2.0 Header (Unpopulated) and basic MB Headers
```

## Memory
**Kingston FURY Impact 32GB (2x 16GB) DDR4-3200 SO-DIMM CL20-22-22 Dual Kit**

Dolphin is not very memory intensive so 32GB at 3200MHz will be absolutely enough. 3200MHz is the maximum possible memory speed for the motherboard. In addition, this memory kit was the fastest and best memory i could find which does not cost over 250 €. So having a 32GB with 3200MHz and CL20 Dual Kit in SO-DIMM size could even be called "overkill" for this setup.

## Storage
**1TB Samsung 970 Evo Plus M.2 2280 PCIe 3.0 x4 NVMe 1.3 3D-NAND TLC**

Storage was even easier to choose as i wanted the system to boot as fast as possible for a good price! Fast boot times are very important for the project because it should feel as close as possible to a real GCN boot. Of course, a fast SSD with high read/write speeds enhances the user experience as well as the loading of games.

**Relevant Specs:**
```
Read:                       3500MB/s
Write:                      3300MB/s SLC-Cached (1700MB/s TLC)
Needed Power:               9W
Lifetime:                   1.500.000 Hours
IOPS (Random 4K Writes):    550.000
```

# Working Tools
## Screwdriver Equipment
- "GameBit" Security Torx 
- Slot Bits in different sizes
- Cross Bits in different sizes

## Soldering
- Soldering Iron with cutter tip
- Desoldering equipment 
- Hot air station/gun
- Flux
- 99% isopropyl (to remove flux)
- Toothbrush
- Solder without lead
- Shrink tubing (different sizes)
- Cable Stripping tool
- Side cutters
- Multi Meter
- Jumper Cables (female to female and female to male)

## Dremel
 - At least a Dremel 3000
Dremel accessories:
 - Large Cutting Disks
 - Grinding Tip (like described [here](../2.2%20-%20PC%20Assembly%20and%20Case%20Bottom/2.2.2%20-%20Case%20Bottom.md))

## Safety Equipment
- Respirator for plastic (ABS) grinding and plastic (ABS) gases.
- Safety glasses
- Working gloves

## Glue
- A very powerful two component glue (epoxy) (with granule)
- Power Assembly Adhesive (with applier)
- Hot Glue Gun
- A vice

## Other Stuff
- Multiple Aluminum sheets. (Thickness: about 0,5 mm, Dimensions: 15x15 mm)
- Middle coarse sandpaper
- Compressed Air in a can
- USB Led stripe with color of choice 
    - Choose a cable which only has two wires/cables that run into the USB-Port. (Choosing one with a very low power consumption should do it.)
- Fine Tweezers 
- All Purpose scissors (able to cut through a small aluminum plate)
- **A GCN of choice (DOL-001)**

**NOTE: Make sure you choose a case/game-cube that comes with all expansion slot cover plates! (e.g. for the ethernet adapter) Also it has to be the DOL-001 model due to the powerbutton that is better usable for this project.**

# Additional Parts
## Case fan for air flow
**Noiseblocker BlackSilent Fan XS1, 50 mm**

Air flow is a difficult task due to the limited space within the case and the proprietary mounting mechanism. The GCN stock fan is mounted directly to the powerbutton chassis. The goal is to replace the fan with the quietest available that fits within the dimensions of the chassis. A new fan is required as the new powerful CPU generates much more heat than the original CPU.

**Relevant Specs:**
```
Dimensions:         50 x 50 x 10 mm
Speed:              3000rpm
Noise:              16.3dB(A)
Air throughput:     11.5m³/h (6.77 CFM)
Power Plug:         3-Pin
Power Consumption:  0.48W
Voltage:            7.5-13.8V
```

## Third Party GCN to USB controller adapter
Here it comes down to the internals of the adapter. If each port is connected to the adapter board with different wires and not directly soldered onto the adapter board itself, it is a clear win as you have a bit of wiggle room where to place the adapter board and the width is small enough to not interfere with he motherboard components! You also have to look out for one with the ability to switch between console and pc mode. (Having this kind of wiggle room is absolutely required!)

![controller_wiggle_room]

As you can see within the highlighted circle, we find a flexible connection between the ports and the adapter board. That’s exactly what we need! As those adapters does not cost much a bit of try and error in finding a suitable one is required.

[controller_wiggle_room]: ../../images/controller_wiggle_room.PNG

# Conclusion
We should now have all parts together to start the building process.
