# Silent Boot
The GameCube boot procedure is very short and shows nothing than a black screen until the boot animation starts to play after a few seconds. In order to reproduce this, we need to take a look at: "Silent Boot".

When a system boots "silently", it does not prompt/show any kind of messages, logos, errors or other stuff during the boot procedure on the console. Fortunately Linux/Ubuntu offers many great ways that helps in achieving an entirely silent boot procedure.

## Kernel CMDLINE / Grub Settings
The most important settings can be done by adding new default cmdline settings to the grub bootloader configuration at `/etc/default/grub`. 
Each setting is separated with a whitespace within the variable: `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT`.
```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet loglevel=0 vt.global_cursor_default=0 fsck.mode=skip nowatchdog console=ttyS0"
```
Let’s take a quick look at each new setting:

- **quiet**
    - Removes basic (the most) kernel boot messages.
- **loglevel=0**
    - Sets the DMESG(Kernel messages) loglevel to the lowest, suppressing potential errors that don’t get hidden by the "quiet" setting.
- **vt.global_cursor_default=0**
    - Removes the blinking cursor from all console displays and during boot.
- **fsck.mode=skip**
    - Skips the default filesystem check procedure during every boot, even if a "dirty filesystem flag" is found (e.g., after a cold reboot). This also decreases the boot time a little bit. Filesystem checks will be done by systemd instead. (So, we don’t have to renounce on fsck)
    
        **NOTE:** If filesystem checks are disabled by this kernel parameter, systemd-fsck.service will do the filesystem checks automatically instead. This is documented within the systemd-fsck documentation.
- **nowatchdog**
    - The kernel's "watchdog" monitors the system for example, to perform a reboot in case the system crashes in some way. This service is not really needed when not running a server operating system. Therefore, disabling it, will result in a slightly faster boot time.
- **console=ttyS0**
    - The "console" parameter tells the system, on which tty the default console output should be displayed. In this case we use the first serial tty which corresponds to the first serial port on the motherboard. (And in our case, there is no such port)

         **NOTE:** This does not affect the main emulator/ui display output, x11 is configured to use the first HDMI output.

To apply the changes made to the default grub cmdline run the following command:
```
$ update-grub
```

# Conclusion
When everything's done right, you should see a black screen during the entire boot process until the login prompt appears.
