# Dolphin Configuration
In order to achieve a clean, seamless and original experience we need to configure dolphin to don’t show any kind of user interface or messages on screen. Additional we want to configure dolphin to accept our adapter tool controller inputs.

## Dolphin Configuration
Dolphin has several configuration files that can be used to configure it to its fullest. The main configuration file is called `Dolphin.ini` and needs to be placed at `/opt/retropie/configs/gc/Config/Dolphin.ini`. We now add the following contents to the file:
```
[Interface]
SkipNKitWarning = True
OnScreenDisplayMessages = False
CursorVisibility = 0
[Input]
BackgroundInput = True
[Core]
EnableCheats = True
```
- **SkipNKitWarning = True**
    - Dolphin displays a warning when using a specific format for games. To skip through this warning, we enable this setting.
- **OnScreenDisplayMessages = False**
    - This prevents dolphin to display any kind of messages on screen.
- **CursorVisibility = 0**
    - This prevents dolphin to show the mouse cursor at any time.
- **BackgroundInput = True**
    - This setting enables dolphin to accept controller input that is not directly configured/connected to the dolphin application. We need this to make the controller input that comes through the [adapter tool](./1.2.2%20-%20Controller%20Support.md) accessible/usable with dolphin.
- **EnableCheats = True**
    - This setting enables dolphin to alter games with ActionReplay or Gecko codes. (For example, to implement a community created 60 FPS enhancement.)

## Dolphin Controller Settings
We now have to map the controller button inputs that come through the adapter tool to dolphins GameCube controller buttons. To achieve this, we have to create an empty GameCube controller profile first. Afterwards we create controller profiles for all four possible controller ports. The four profiles need to be configured with the correct adapter tool controller inputs.

### Empty Profile
Create the following file at: `/opt/retropie/configs/gc/Config/GCPadNew.ini` and add the following "dummy" configuration for the new profile:
```
[GCPad1]
Device = XInput2/0/Virtual core pointer
Buttons/A = `X`
Buttons/B = `Z`
Buttons/X = `C`
Buttons/Y = `S`
Buttons/Z = `D`
Buttons/Start = `Return`
Main Stick/Up = `Up`
Main Stick/Down = `Down`
Main Stick/Left = `Left`
Main Stick/Right = `Right`
Main Stick/Modifier = `Shift`
Main Stick/Modifier/Range = 50.0
Main Stick/Calibration = 100.00 141.42 100.00 141.42 100.00 141.42 100.00 141.42
C-Stick/Up = `I`
C-Stick/Down = `K`
C-Stick/Left = `J`
C-Stick/Right = `L`
C-Stick/Modifier = `Ctrl`
C-Stick/Modifier/Range = 50.0
C-Stick/Calibration = 100.00 141.42 100.00 141.42 100.00 141.42 100.00 141.42
Triggers/L = `Q`
Triggers/R = `W`
D-Pad/Up = `T`
D-Pad/Down = `G`
D-Pad/Left = `F`
D-Pad/Right = `H`
[GCPad2]
Device = XInput2/0/Virtual core pointer
Main Stick/Modifier/Range = 50.0
C-Stick/Modifier/Range = 50.0
[GCPad3]
Device = XInput2/0/Virtual core pointer
Main Stick/Modifier/Range = 50.0
C-Stick/Modifier/Range = 50.0
[GCPad4]
Device = XInput2/0/Virtual core pointer
Main Stick/Modifier/Range = 50.0
C-Stick/Modifier/Range = 50.0
```
Dolphin needs this "dummy" profile first before you can load custom GameCube controller profiles.

### Custom Controller Profiles
Next up, we want to configure all four GameCube controllers within dolphin by creating four ".ini" files within the this new directory path: `mkdir -p /opt/retropie/configs/gc/Config/Profiles/GCPad`.
- `default_p1.ini`
- `default_p2.ini`
- `default_p3.ini`
- `default_p4.ini`

Add the following contents to all four files:
```
[Profile]
Device = evdev/0/Wii U GameCube Adapter Port 1
Buttons/A = SOUTH
Buttons/B = WEST
Buttons/X = EAST
Buttons/Y = NORTH
Buttons/Z = `TR2`
Buttons/Start = START
Main Stick/Up = `Axis 1-`
Main Stick/Down = `Axis 1+`
Main Stick/Left = `Axis 0-`
Main Stick/Right = `Axis 0+`
Main Stick/Modifier/Range = 50.0
C-Stick/Up = `Axis 4-`
C-Stick/Down = `Axis 4+`
C-Stick/Left = `Axis 3-`
C-Stick/Right = `Axis 3+`
C-Stick/Modifier/Range = 50.0
Triggers/L = `Full Axis 2+`
Triggers/R = `Full Axis 5+`
Triggers/L-Analog = `Full Axis 2+`
Triggers/R-Analog = `Full Axis 5+`
Rumble/Motor = Weak
D-Pad/Up = `DPAD_UP`
D-Pad/Down = `DPAD_DOWN`
D-Pad/Left = `DPAD_LEFT`
D-Pad/Right = `DPAD_RIGHT`
Options/Always Connected = True
```
Now we just have to count up the port number at the `Device` Parameter for each profile. So, the `Device` parameter in `default_p2.ini` would be set to: "`evdev/0/Wii U GameCube Adapter Port 2`".

# Conclusion
Dolphin itself is now completely configured to have the best possible user experience and we now have full controller support for our controller setup.
