# IOShield Extension
When we look at the back of the game-cube now, we see an awful opening between the motherboard's ioshield and the top case part of the system. To close this gap, we use thin aluminum sheets. 

## Cutting the aluminum
First, we need to create a piece of aluminum that covers the motherboard's ioshield, the gap and goes a few millimeters behind the top case part.

I recommend cutting out a rough shape and aligning it to the system a few times always trimming down more until it fits. 

The piece should cover the ioshield and the cap like this.

![ioshield_extension_9]

Also, the piece should be a bit taller than actual needed to cover the gaps. By doing this we can bend the aluminum behind the top case a bit to be able to add some glue giving the plate a stronger connection to the case. (It also enhances the look of the plate a bit.)

![ioshield_extension_5]

As you can see the aluminum plate bends a little behind the top case part. 

The following shape should be our aluminum cutout piece. (Be careful as the edges of the aluminum are very sharp!) Note: we should cover as much of the ioshield as possible while keeping all ports normally accessible! 

![alu_piece]

![ioshield_extension_3]

Once you have cut the piece out, give the upper part of the plate a little and slight bend like there is on the pictures above.

## Gluing the aluminum
Now that we have the right shape, we want to apply Power Assembly Adhesive on the motherboards ioshield.

![ioshield_extension_2]

We then press down the aluminum cutout while sticking the bended upper end behind the top case half. So, start putting the bended part in and then press down the rest upon the ioshield. 

![ioshield_extension_4]

As we want as much contact between the aluminum plate and the ioshield as possible we want to use small portions of our power glue to fill up any unglued/unfilled gaps between the aluminum plate and the ioshield. Us a spatula to spread it evenly.

![ioshield_extension_6]

At Last, we add some power glue to the little gab between the upper bended part of the aluminum plate and the top case part. Try to fill up the gap/bend as much as possible. You should also use a spatula here and don’t forget to also fill the left part/side of the aluminum plate. (Like shown on the pictures below.). Be sure to clean the outside of the case and the top side of the aluminum plate of residual glue that may have overflowed during this step.

![ioshield_extension_7]
![ioshield_extension_8]

If done right, it should look similar to the pictures above.

At last, we need to let the glue harden for twenty-four hours.

# Conclusion
The gap between the motherboard's ioshield and the top case part is permanently closed with an strongly glued aluminum plate.

[ioshield_extension_2]: ../../images/ioshield_extension_2.PNG
[ioshield_extension_3]: ../../images/ioshield_extension_3.PNG
[ioshield_extension_4]: ../../images/ioshield_extension_4.PNG
[ioshield_extension_5]: ../../images/ioshield_extension_5.PNG
[ioshield_extension_6]: ../../images/ioshield_extension_6.PNG
[ioshield_extension_7]: ../../images/ioshield_extension_7.PNG
[ioshield_extension_8]: ../../images/ioshield_extension_8.PNG
[ioshield_extension_9]: ../../images/ioshield_extension_9.PNG
[alu_piece]: ../../images/alu_piece.PNG
