# Case Assembly
Now that we have everything done, we need to close the case joining the upper-case part together with the lower one. 

## Securing the system header
Just like we did at the USB-Header we want to add some hot glue around the motherboard's system header where the LED stripes as well as the powerbutton is connected. This prevents the cables from getting lose or even fall off.

![systemheader_glue]

## Aligning everything and test
First, we need to align the most difficult part. The controller housing. 

We need to keep two things in mind. First, the controller housing does have three plastic standoffs at the bottom of the part itself.

![caseassembly_controller_3]

Those would go directly between the motherboard and the frame of the case's bottom part. If something interferes, try and melt the part away or use the Dremel. (If you can't fit it in, you can also remove those three standoffs with the dremel.)

The second are the two pillars to which the controller housing can be clipped to. There are two of these pillars at the top case part.

![caseassembly_controller_2]

The controller housing does have two clips for those pillars.

![caseassembly_controller_4]

Next you should try clipping the controller housing to the pillars at the top case part in the correct orientation. Try to close the case now in the way the final result should look. (Lookout for the three plastic standoffs if they fit at the bottom. if not use the Dremel.) There should only be a maximum 1 mm gab between the grey controller housing and the game-cube case itself. 

![caseassembly_controller_5]

If everything fits right, open the case again and align the controller housing within the top case part like it would look like within the original case and carefully apply hot glue around the controller housing within the case top part gluing them to each other. As hot glue hardens faster you just have to hold the two pieces together aligning them as good as possible until the glue got hard. (I don’t recommend lying the two components on a table while aligning the pieces with hot glue. Remember that the controller housing stands out of the rest of the case in the original and we want to keep that!) Afterwards you can add more Power Assembly Adhesive on top of the hot glue to have a wider area glued together in a more powerful way. (**Note: don’t apply the glue at the bottom where the three plastic standoffs are and don’t apply the power glue to thick so it does not interfere with anything else.**)

The line that should be glued it marked in red within the following picture.

![caseassembly_controller_1]

We now have to wait another twenty-four hours until the glue got hard.

## Closing the game-cube
Next up, we close the game-cube joining everything together. Here you should also pay attention that the gap where the two halves touch between the upper and the lower part of the case should only be at a 1 mm maximum. (Just try to bring them as close together as possible.) If you are certain that everything Fits together well, tight and evenly at all sides we can start gluing. (Don’t forget that the cables should not be under pressure or interfere with the case fan or the CPU fan. Also, they should not interfere when closing the case at the edges of the case halves.)

Try to carefully roughen up the edges of the case frame itself were both halves of the case would touch each other with a bit with small sandpaper pieces. (Be careful! It is not really easy and you can easily scratch the case.) Those edges are very small, thin and tiny so you have to be extra careful here:

![caseassembly_3]

Once you’re done, do the same on the corresponding counterpart of the other half.

![caseassembly_4]

Clean of the dust with some isopropyl after you are done.

To glue everything together we want to use a very powerful two component glue (epoxy) with the corresponding granule. 

Close the game-cube's case first and make sure everything is aligned correctly. Now you want to fill the tiny gap between the two case halves on the first side of the cube with as much granule as possible. (Holding the cube in your hands or letting it lie on your legs helps a bit) Now you pour the two components glue in the gap filled with the corresponding granule. **Note: make sure the whole gap is filled up! But be very careful not to pour too much glue in the gap as it would ruin the look of the case if the gap overflows! Just do as much as possible!**

Wait a bit before doing the next side and keep in mind to always put enough pressure on the top part to keep both halves together as much as possible. It’s hard to apply pressure with your hands while the system lies on your legs and while you glue but the epoxy reacts very quickly with the granule and you only have to hold it as long as the glue is not liquid anymore and does not flow anymore. Once you’re done the gaps should look like this:

![caseassembly_2]

Do the same procedure on the gap between the controller port housing and the case. (Note: Try to be es fast and careful as possible while gluing as we want to apply an evenly pressure as soon as possible!)

![caseassembly_controller_5]

Now we let the whole system rest for about twenty-four hours putting some weight on to keep applying pressure on the glued points evenly.

![caseassembly_5]

# Conclusion
Both halves of the GameCube are now closed and glued tightly together. The controller ports sit where they should sit. **Note: I absolutely don’t recommend lifting the system from the top or the handle! Always lift the system by only grabbing the bottom half of the case!**

[systemheader_glue]: ../../images/systemheader_glue.PNG
[caseassembly_2]: ../../images/caseassembly_2.PNG
[caseassembly_3]: ../../images/caseassembly_3.PNG
[caseassembly_4]: ../../images/caseassembly_4.PNG
[caseassembly_5]: ../../images/caseassembly_5.PNG
[caseassembly_controller_1]: ../../images/caseassembly_controller_1.PNG
[caseassembly_controller_2]: ../../images/caseassembly_controller_2.PNG
[caseassembly_controller_3]: ../../images/caseassembly_controller_3.PNG
[caseassembly_controller_4]: ../../images/caseassembly_controller_4.PNG
[caseassembly_controller_5]: ../../images/caseassembly_controller_5.PNG
[controller_case_plastic]: ../../images/controller_case_plastic.PNG
[controller_housing]: ../../images/controller_housing.PNG
