# PC Assembly
Now we want to build our actual computer that we want to put into our GameCube-case. As there are very great guides in the internet covering this process, this article will not focus on how to do it correctly. (e.g.: Installing RAM)

**NOTE: Make sure to use the CPU-Cooler that comes with the case itself! It is rated for a TDP of 65W which is perfect for our CPU.**

## Retrieve the Motherboard
1. Just remove the four screws shown here and gently pull the motherboard tray out of the case.

    ![pc_case]


2. Unplug the connected front IO header.

    ![pc_stock_frontheader]

3. Remove the four screws from the motherboard tray which holds the board and remove the tray.

    ![pc_mb_tray]

New we can proceed building the computer with the chosen components. (Ram, Storage, etc...)

## OS-Installation and Configuration
Once all components are installed onto the motherboard, we want to install Ubuntu right away so we don’t have to install/configure everything after the chassis is closed. This also includes all system customizations that we covered so far in this guide. It is better to do it now with an opened case so we can easily check/replace components if something is faulty.

**Only proceed from here if you’re sure that you finished applying/testing everything from: [Software](../../1%20-%20Software/).**

# Conclusion
The computer itself should be fully assembled and the OS installation and configuration (Software-Part) is completely done and tested.

![assembled_pc]

[pc_case]: ../../images/pc_case.PNG
[pc_stock_frontheader]: ../../images/pc_stock_frontheader.PNG
[pc_mb_tray]: ../../images/pc_mb_tray.PNG
[assembled_pc]: ../../images/assembled_pc.PNG
