# Case Bottom
Next, we need to remove all of the plastic from the case bottom that stand up and flatten it down as much as possible to fit the motherboard.
To achieve this, we use a Dremel cutting disk to cut ourselves through the plastic parts. Note: Read through the whole article before you start!

## WARNING
**The GameCube’s components are mainly made out of ABS (Plastic). Using a Dremel on the components will cause them to melt! During the process many thin ABS microparticles and ABS gases are being released into the surrounding environment. It is absolutely required to wear closing/fitting safety glasses, thick gloves to avoid cutting into skin and a suitable respirator for plastic(ABS) grinding and plastic(ABS) gases. Also, the Dremel/melting part should be done outside or within a very good ventilated room. This project and I, the author, cannot be held liable for any possible damage to health.**

## Goals and Important Information
The goal here is to remove as much plastic from the inside of the case bottom as possible while not harming anything that would be visible if the case is closed. We need to be extra careful on the edges, sides, the bottom and the corners of the case! If the Dremel is too "powerful" for small adjustments, we use a soldering iron to melt the part. (Note: The soldering iron will get very dirty and might not be cleanable afterwards.)

Another thing to keep in mind and to be extra careful with are the bottom expansion slot covers. Make sure they all sit correctly as we are melting them a bit to connect them to the rest of the case permanently. I recommend putting some tape over them to keep them in place before dremeling anything. (We want to use tape that comes easily off afterwards!)

## Dremel/Melt
Once we are suited up with our safety equipment, we can start using the Dremel with cutting disks. We Dremel as much plastic away as we can. If there are corners or points that are hard to reach or need more sensitive handling, use the soldering iron. 

![bottom_dremel_start]

For some places it might be easier or safer to use a grinding tip for the Dremel. (Needed for more sensitive places)

![bottom_dremel_grind]

We want to use the soldering iron for very sensitive parts within the case that require extra attention. (This provides a much calmer handling)

![bottom_melt]

Once we grinded everything as flat as possible and removed as much outstanding plastic as possible we want to join/melt the expansion slot covers with the case itself. Therefore, we use the soldering iron with a horizontal wide soldering tip to carefully melt the plastic right where the expansion slot cover and the case itself are touching. Take a look at the following picture. It shows the ethernet expansion slot cover which is connected via melting to the rest of the case on the right. (Right red circle). On the left side, the expansion slot cover is highlighted in red. It also gets melted right where it touches the case melting the two plastic components together. (Case and cover) 

Make sure both plastics are melted a bit so they join together well. Also, we have to be very careful to not overdo it. Too much heat at one point or the removal of too much plastic at one point is visible from the back! (The plastic can lose its form.) (However, they need to be joined permanently together so having a strong as possible melted connection is required.)

![bottom_melt_expansion-cover]

Now you can use compressed air to remove any kind of leftovers from the grinding.

Next, we carefully lay the assembled pc into the grinded case to see if we still have to remove something or have to further flatten something.

## Test Fitting
Try to fit the motherboard in the case without having any plastic that blocks it. In a best-case scenario you should be able to fit the motherboard and the corresponding IO-Shield on the same height as the lowest point of the case's frame.

![case_pc_ioshield]

Note: you don’t have to correct anything now if the board and the IOshield sit too low.

# Conclusion
We now have the original bottom case flatten down as far as possible removing the existing plastic standoffs completely. Also, the motherboard should fit onto/into the bottom of the case part fine without it getting blocked by plastic remains. Finally, all expansion slot covers should be attached/melted to the case itself permamently. We can now remove the tape for that.

[bottom_dremel_start]: ../../images/bottom_dremel_start.PNG
[bottom_dremel_grind]: ../../images/bottom_dremel_grind.PNG
[bottom_melt]: ../../images/bottom_melt.PNG
[bottom_melt_expansion-cover]: ../../images/bottom_melt_expansion-cover.PNG
[case_pc_ioshield]: ../../images/case_pc_ioshield.PNG
