# Intermediate Test
We can now test if the powerbutton can be pushed normally and if it works. Also, we want to test the new case fan in action! Therefore, we want to connect them now to the motherboard.

**Consult the motherboard manual if you are unsure what you have to plug in on which port/header on the motherboard.**

## Connect the case fan
There should be another port on the mainboard labeled as "CPU Fan 2" This is the one we want to connect our new case fan to. (It should be located next to the existing CPU-Fan port)

## Connect the powerbutton
Now we plug in the powerbutton to the corresponding port on the motherboard. (Like seen in the next pictures)

![pwr_button_header]

![pwrbutton_draw]

## Test
Now you can connect the power supply of the motherboard (should be shipped with the actual motherboard.) and connect a monitor via HDMI. If everything is connected in the right way, you should be able to press the Powerbutton of the original console to power the pc on. The new case fan should start spinning now as well as the CPU fan. If the pc turns off right after you pressed the button, you should try to press it twice very fast and that should do the trick. Also, this confirms if the powerbutton is pressable and usable as it should be or as it was on the original console. (Regarding, if the button stays down or not and if it really powers the pc on.)

If you really want to turn the pc on by pressing the button once so the button stays down, you might need another switch underneath the plastic button of the case that works this way. The GameCube switch stays down providing an "infinite power button press" for the pc and that’s what turns it off so quickly. If we press the button down twice very fast, we "simulate" the switch behavior of the original powerbutton for this motherboard which was designed with a switch that does not stay down after one press. 

## If something does not work
### Case fan
If the new case fan does not spin at all but you already glued it to the case, you should not worry too much. The new CPU does emit more heat than the original GameCube however a **real** overheating problem/throttling should not really occur for our use case. As a last sort of "solution" for possible overheating problems is the GameCube disk-lid. If you open the lid, the CPU fan should get plenty of cold air.

**Note: ~ 2 Hours of gaming with a closed case and both fans working showed an average CPU Temperature at +45°C with and an overall 40% CPU utilization with our current dolphin settings. As you can see, we have plenty of wiggle room for more heat.**

### Powerbutton is not pressable correctly 
If the button does not stay down, if it cannot come up again after the first press or if it just does not power the pc on you have one last option left. Locate the two jumper cables for the powerbutton. Now you have to carefully cut the wires as close to the GameCube's power-switch as possible so you have as much cable as possible. Now you should have two cut off wires that are still plugged to the motherboard's powerbutton header.
Now I recommend to use a sort of plastic wire/cable bridge in which you can plug the unshielded cable and another cable, extending the length of the connection by joining them. If you do that with both cables you can implement/connect a new working powerbutton. (The bridge, or a longer cable, can be useful if something goes wrong after you permanently closed the case but need a new button. If that is the case, you should do so like described with the bridge. Just open the disk lid and you should be able to reach the cables, cut them and plug them into a bridge extending their length.) So the bridge is only really useful if you have to replace the button after you permanently closed the case. In that case operation through the disk lid of the gamecube is your only option. Cutting the cables from there and extending the length with a bridge is in my opinion the best solution. With that you could install a new powerbutton outside the case.


# Conclusion
After we are done with the test, we can confirm that the powerbutton works correctly and that case fan spins.

[pwr_button_header]: ../../images/pwr_button_header.PNG
[pwrbutton_draw]: ../../images/pwrbutton_draw.PNG
