# PC Mount into Case
Now we get to the part where we have to put our assembled PC into the bottom case of the gamecube.

## Test fitting
First, we want to take a look if our motherboard does not get blocked by any remaining plastic parts within the case bottom. Note that the ports should be on the same height as the lowest point of the grey plastic frame of the case. (Like on the picture)

![case_pc_fitting]

If everything aligns similar to the picture above, we should be fine. 
The IO-Ports should be oriented on the same side where the original GameCube IO-Ports were. (The back)

## Gluing the Board
As we don’t have any mounting mechanism for the board, we just want to glue the whole board into the case. Note: You won’t be able to remove the board anymore afterwards. 

To achieve this, we first have to roughen the backplate of the CPU-Cooler with sandpaper.

![case_pc_glue]

Now we apply a bit of Power Assembly Adhesive on the bottom of the case.

![case_pc_glue_1]

Next, we apply a lot of glue at the backplate of the CPU-Cooler.

![case_pc_glue_2]

In the end we loosely put on the IO-Shield of the board and press the board centered down into the case until the height of the lowest ports of the IO-Shield match with the height of the case's frame. (If the height still is too low, we have to melt some "cut outs" into the frame of the case bottom later with the soldering iron so the cable can be plugged in correctly. In other words, we would have to decrease the height of the frame of case bottom a bit so the ports can be accessed.)

![case_pc_ioshield]

If the board is too low, just add more glue to the bottom. Make sure the board sits on the case bottom as evenly as possible to not interfere with the controller housing. Also, it should sit as low as possible in the case but the frame of the case should not block any IO-Ports at the same time! 

If it looks similar to the picture above you are fine.

Now we need to wait twenty-four hours until the glue got hard.

## Gluing the IO-Shield
As the IO-Shield is made out of very thin aluminum we also want to use the Power Assembly Adhesive here. To protect the connectors within the IO-Ports from glue we plug in the HDMI cable as well as the power cable.

Next, we cut out a small, thin piece of paper or tape and warp it as tight as possible around the HDMI and power port. (Only one layer) We do this so that no glue comes through the metal openings of the HDMI port and the power port.

![ioshield_3]

Note: the picture above is just used to explain where the tape should be placed to protect the ports.

Now we plugin both cables and add as much glue over all IO-Ports as possible. The glue should also touch the motherboard PCB Itself. Make sure the glue also gets between the space of each port and touches the IO-Shield itself. Use a spatula to spread the glue around. You can remove the glue that comes through the IO-Shield itself with the spatula. In the end it should be similar to the following picture.

![ioshield_2]

Now we need to wait another twenty-four hours until the glue is hard.

# Conclusion
We now mounted the motherboard and the IO-Shield into the case bottom on the correct height so all ports/cables can be accessed and plugged. Also, the board should sit as low, even and centered as possible. 


[case_pc_fitting]: ../../images/case_pc_fitting.PNG
[case_pc_glue]: ../../images/case_pc_glue.PNG
[case_pc_glue_1]: ../../images/case_pc_glue_1.PNG
[case_pc_glue_2]: ../../images/case_pc_glue_2.PNG
[case_pc_ioshield]: ../../images/case_pc_ioshield.PNG
[ioshield_1]: ../../images/ioshield_1.PNG
[ioshield_2]: ../../images/ioshield_2.PNG
[ioshield_3]: ../../images/ioshield_3.PNG
